Ask you a few questions about background, maybe a few general questions about your fiction.
Alright.
And then some specific ones about, you know, specific books and so forth.
Okay, David, have we got the tape rolling?
We've got the tape rolling.
Okay, listen, if you can, I am getting a bad feedback if you can find a bad echo.
I can hardly hear my voice.
Let me see.
Hello, test, test.
Well, hello yourself, test.
Ah, let's see.
Try that and see if that's a little better.
Okay.
Testing one, two, yeah, okay, that'll work.
As long as it's voice, you got the tape rolling?
Yeah, make sure you hit the yellow button whenever it stops.
Okay.
Alright, you ready?
Okay, tape is rolling.
Like I said before, you know, we edit this, so if you say something you want to take back
or I'd ask a dumb question, just stop me.
I'm not okay.
Okay, one thing I had problem with, I wasn't able to find anything of use to me on your
background, exclusive of writing, just, you know, what you do, what you, you know, just
anything about background.
Could you just give me a brief statement on that?
Well, let's see.
Up until about the age 14, I lived in Austin, Austin, Texas.
Loved it.
I began to enjoy taking trips with my parents once or twice a year or something up into
the mountains, say, in New Mexico, mainly.
By the time I was 15, I had moved to Lubbock, finished high school there, because I was
a couple of years younger than everybody else.
When I got into the football program, it was more or less four-hour day in that I was going
to lose a few teeth.
You know, you don't have a linebacker two years younger than everybody else without
him losing a few parts on the way.
Tended to make me rather aggressive.
Anyway, I graduated 16, took a year at Texas Tech, then almost flunked out actually.
I was, I think, not ready, I think, for college.
I was going in as a chemical engineer.
I changed majors and went to Fort Worth at TCU another year and a half there as a speech
student and began to do scripts then.
At that time, I had a fairly good idea that I would be able to write, and I was playing
with writing at the time.
I went into the Air Force in TCU and spent four years from 51 to early 55 at various places
around the country.
You know, I didn't get shipped overseas.
When I came to California, I finally got a degree in radio speech, direction, and writing.
For some strange reason, decided not to do anything with that immediately, but went into
aerospace engineering.
And for the next 15 years, I rose to a not very exciting position, but it was senior
research engineer, even though I had a speech degree.
And for the time I was, I was, I was about 1967 or 1968, I was deciding several things
about the aerospace industry.
They were really making up at the expense of the, of the ingenious.
Let's say the people that had the ideas were rarely treated all that well.
And the managers were the ones who got close to the benefit of all those ideas.
So I quit doing design work and simply did it in my own home, went back for a master's
degree at San Jose State while I was still a field energy engineer.
And at the same time, I built and raised a couple of cars, post car types.
Then I decided to go ahead and get a doctorate at the University of Oregon, left California.
Since then, that's about 12 years ago, and then I got the doctorate for the top 15 years
that has dreadful did yet to be a doctorate.
So I came back to the West Coast and found that I could teach, say whatever it is I need to say
without anyone, without having to answer to any administrator, so long as I give a bang
up good yarn in the process.
So there's your thumbnail history.
Good.
Okay.
By the way, at the ends of your answers, I'm probably going to pause a little bit to make
sure you're done.
It doesn't mean I'm not listening.
I understood.
Okay.
Listen, did you read science fiction as a youngster?
I read a little science fiction when I was a kid.
I recall my granddad switching off with his old pulp, instant pulp magazine with other railroad
engineers and Breitman and so on, and I would occasionally read some of the pulp magazines
in there.
Then when I was about, oh, I suppose, 12 years old, I discovered timeline and a couple of
other science fiction writers that I really did enjoy, and off and on, through my high
school years, I would read science fiction.
Oh, what is now analog?
It used to be called astounding.
I would read that and not much else.
But by the time I was a college freshman and wanted to get into the sciences and engineering,
I was what you could call a, you know, a modest fan of science fiction.
Okay.
You weren't the type then that was a fanatic and put out your own fanzine and went to conventions
and so forth.
The first, oh, no, I was never really a fan.
The first science fiction convention I ever went to, a man named Mark Clifton who had just
won the first Hugo, I believe.
He was about the only man I knew who was a writer.
And I had already had a couple of stories sold to astounding, now analog maybe.
And Mark asked me to come along to a Worldcon which happened to be in Southern California
at the time.
I went, I kind of enjoyed it, but I didn't really make any contact and I did go on with
it for very long.
I simply quit writing science fiction and went back to doing engineering, design and
so forth for years and years.
I perceived that there were problems that I liked to, you know, social and technological
problems that I liked to address more immediately than I could address them in science fiction.
It wasn't until some years later that I realized that I had almost nothing to say about what
was done with my ability.
Whatever ingenuity I might have was not going to be used as I chose but as the administration
chose, as long as I worked for some large company.
And so I got more and more out of that, did more and more design work, development of
all kinds of notions in my home lab.
Not just building racing cars but developing the fiberglass rivet technique, developing
a multi-manometric gauge gadget that you could put on a prototype automobile.
And drive the car at various speeds on a freeway and get wind tunnel data from it.
Things like that.
I simply wanted to do it and I never had much opportunity to get anything out of it through
the industries that I worked in.
So I decided to head for those guys.
I would do all my work on my own.
Okay, listen, the source is available to me.
I don't think I know about those early stories of yours, those early ones for astounding.
What year are you talking about?
Let's see.
My first published story was early in 1955.
I wrote it in 1954.
It was called Type-Squeed.
And I know it's in some old compilations of stories back in the 50s.
And about a year and a half later, I guess the summer of 1956, I had one published that is called Red Rover.
Now, Red Rover has been reprinted in an anthology about two years ago.
But Type-Squeed, I believe, has ever been reprinted, which is not too surprising as a story.
He doesn't know all that good.
As a suggestion of the kinds of problems that a mechanic was liable to have in freefall working in an orbital situation,
it was, I think, a pretty good story.
So let's say that it was good as a technological flip note, but it was not particularly good as a story.
And that was in 1955-1966.
I quit writing then for almost 20 years because I had sent another story, which was clearly a fake piece,
clearly a complaint about the way we were centralizing in bigger and bigger cities.
The story I wrote, which I can even recall the name of now, it was turned down by Horace Gould at Gallicry.
And Horace's scribbled complaint to me was that it was a terrific storytelling, but not much of a story.
That I was, it was perfectly clear that I was up on the soapbox, wranging the reader.
And Horace was just entertaining. That's all he wanted. Well, that made me mad.
I didn't think that my particular position in life was as an entertainer.
And I realized if I couldn't make the things that I had to say interesting enough so that I could entertain and inform at the same time,
then I wouldn't write. And that's the truth. I couldn't. I didn't know the class that well at the time.
I could either entertain you or I could write some information down. I could write some information down and hold it.
Just a minute there, I'll think about this and rephrase it.
Fine.
I could either entertain you and give the reader what he wanted and not do anything I wanted to do,
or I could try to inform the reader and satisfy myself and not give the reader what he wanted.
That is not a very good way to do it. Let's face it, the reader is the one who must be satisfied first.
He's the person who pays his money for the entertainment.
So I need to entertain about 90% first and inform no more than 10%.
Okay, good. You anticipated one of my next questions anyhow with that one. That was good.
Much of your fiction, at least your later fiction, is set in the late 1980s, 1990s.
And I wonder why you're picking that time period so much.
I think that the 80s and 90s give me a whole lot more clarity.
It's really tough to see what's going on, to have much of a clear vision as to what's going to happen 30 to 40 years from now.
I have, oh, the 1950s. I've had some fairly clear notions as to what the future would hold,
and I have a pretty good batting average on that.
Just for one example, to look at my very short and not very important career in sports car racing,
I quit after two or three years and wrote some letters, open letters to editors and so on,
of the racing fraternity saying that our overuse of gasoline and this waste of energy
was really not in the best interest of the human race, and we were all going to be sorry for it.
This was in 1961 and 62, and I set about trying to demonstrate how much better machines we could have than we did have.
Well, because I built one of them is out in my garage right now, it looks like next year's bullshit, and it's 20 years old.
My perceptions of what was going to happen 15, 20, 25 years in the future have been fairly good,
and I would rather write about things that I feel more firmly familiar with.
It's just awfully hard for me to figure out what's going to happen in the year 2010, let's say.
However, I am working on it.
Okay, all of your stories, it seems to me, your novels, novellas, whatever, they're all built around a very strong subject or theme,
such things as the media or terrorism or nuclear war and so forth, and I wondered which comes first when you start a book.
Does the subject come first and then you look for characters and then silence so forth, or do the characters come, or how do you go about it?
I've hit it the first time, Dale. It is the theme usually that comes first.
I have on occasion, sometimes just as an exercise, or sometimes just for fun, or because a friend will ask me to do so.
There is an anthology that Larry Niven did based on his book called The Magic Goes Away, and I don't do much fantasy,
but Larry's fantasy was a very clever one, a very good one, he even had a sense of scientific basis for magic,
and he asked me to do a story for a sequel, and I was very happy to do that,
but it's one of the few stories that I've written that I wish I did not have what I consider an important theme to start with.
So as you first suggested, yes, I'll usually take a theme, then build plot and characters that go along with it.
Okay, good. I was surprised what you said about Horace Gold's comment on that story,
because my impression of your writing is that it's extremely fast-paced and exciting.
When I pick up one of your books, I can hardly put it down until it's done,
and I wondered if that skill or that file, whatever, is something you've acquired or worked at, or does it come naturally to you?
I worked my buns off to get it, actually, Harold.
You've got to remember that I did get my doctorate in communication theory,
and media theory is a fairly good-sized flood of that,
and studying men like William Stevenson and his clay theory of magic communication,
taught me a lot about the kind of entertainment that an audience is liable to focus on.
So, again, as you said, it's something that I had to work at.
It didn't just come naturally. In fact, it still doesn't just come naturally.
I have to sometimes go back and say, wait a minute, this is what I was wanting to say,
but my God, nobody would be interested.
So, now I've got to go back and figure a way to make it interesting.
If I can do that 90% or 95% entertainment in a story,
I know I can get away with putting in 5% message.
Okay, that's a good proportion, it works, I think.
Yeah, it does.
However, there is a book just about to come out,
in fact, it should be out by the time this tape is out.
It's called Pulling Clues,
and that is a novel in which I must have 20% information in there and only 80% entertainment.
But it is, again, extremely fat-paced.
I set a nuclear survival scenario in the context of a great big overbearing and overwhelming bounty hunter in California.
A guy who goes around with weapons all the time and has a very high-tech environment.
He's a man around whom things just happen and they happen fast.
But the book is probably 20% information.
It's, I guess, the most thoroughly information-packed novel I've ever written.
And the reviews that are just coming out are very nice reviews,
and so far I haven't heard anybody complain that it's dull.
But that is, I think, the biggest risk I take.
Yeah, I knew that book was coming out, pulling through.
I'm sorry to say I couldn't find a copy of that.
By any chance, that's not a sequel with a Contra line of desert for Systemic Shop.
Pulling Through is a short novel on nuclear survival in the San Francisco Bay Area.
And the short novel is followed in the same book by five articles,
nonfiction articles detailing some of the gadgetry and techniques that these people use to stay alive.
So that it is not only a fast-paced short novel, but it is also a manual of nuclear survival.
All that in a single paperback.
Good. I'll be waiting to get my hands on one of those.
I knew it was coming. I just haven't been able to find a copy.
Well, I haven't seen one yet either, Darrell.
It's probably maybe two weeks in the future before it'll get to the stand.
Yeah, okay. Let me focus down on some particular works then.
All right.
What was the impetus behind Anasazi?
Well, for many years, I've been interested in American, North American, and Central American archaeology and anthropology.
My master's degree was in American Indian Scientology.
I had been in the Anasazi area numerous times and was aware of this mystery that still exists as to why those people moved down to the Anasazi.
I should be more specific.
The mystery as to why the American Indians who lived near the cliff dwellings, why they moved down under those cliffs and made those cliff dwellings to begin with.
We know why they left, why they abandoned the cliff dwellings because of a great drought that was starving the knobs for 25 years or so.
We know about the unbroken tradition of life in that area for centuries and centuries before they built the cliff dwellings.
We still do not know.
We do not know today why they built those dwellings themselves.
It would seem, well, perhaps they were afraid of something.
They were retreating from something.
Yet we have no significant information as to what they were retreating from.
Well, it was my idea to set up a scenario that would explain why these people abandoned their homes or accessible places upon top of the maces and moved down into a sort of dissimilar fortification.
Since I enjoy visiting that part of the country, you know, like the Ziyua Pueblo, Akama, Mesa Verde, East Slater, Sanova Fonsil, Santa Clara, all the Pueblos in that area, I enjoy it a lot and this gave me a chance to do, to refamiliarize myself with some research, to go back to the area and write a book.
A story that tied in so completely with facts.
Facts that archaeologists already know that it might be a little hard sometimes, or say, undergrad students to decide which is back and which is fiction.
Okay, you mentioned to me once before when I talked to you last time that there were some things you had in that book that hadn't even been come out yet.
Is there some kind of research you did that hadn't even been noticed by anybody or something?
Well, some of that was research that a friend of mine had done. He's an anthropologist.
It was not that nobody had done it. It was that it hadn't been published yet.
A friend of mine who was doing his doctoral dissertation on witchcraft, which was in Pueblo.
And I was aware of all this and I had access to his tape recording.
And while he was studying about the early stages of his doctoral dissertation, I was already reading those tapes, making notes and so on.
So the book, Anasazi, which came out before his dissertation did, had information that was not in the literature yet.
What it amounted to was that I had tomorrow morning's newspaper and when you have tomorrow morning's newspaper, you always seem smarter than you are.
Okay, good.
In one way, this work was different from most of your other later writing in that it had the aliens in it, the alien menace theme.
And I guess an old stand by a science fiction about that monster thing.
Oh, yeah.
Was that just the plot device to explain the Anasazi problem or was it something you just deliberately chose for some other reason?
I'm not sure how to answer that, Bill.
They were the most likely answer, I could think of, to make it a horror story about a kind of possession that would possess American Indian kids
and turn this thing from a science fiction western detective love story into a science fiction western love horror story.
I wanted to try to do just about everything in a very short novel.
It was an exercise in part to see how many kinds of a story I could write without making it seem jumbled.
I couldn't think of anything more logical than to build upon very obviously Al Climans story, needle.
If you remember, Al Climans wrote the story about a blob-like creature that lives within a human host.
And Robert Heinlein's story is a puppet master.
Now, let's see.
I'm fairly sure that Al Climans did his first write and Heinlein's story was next.
And I decided that if I was going to leapfrog on the marvelous creatures they had invented, the least I could do was to take it a bit further.
If I didn't take it a bit further, I was really only listing ideas.
So I used these horrific creatures and took their psychology a bit further than I thought previous authors had done that.
What? Okay, at the end of the edition I have, I don't know if you have what you call a post-ludy which indicates maybe some kind of sequel.
Have you planned anything in that area?
No, the post-ludy is really just a Latin phrase for aftergate.
Rather than talking about work to come, I'm talking to the readers really about playing with ideas about the characters and settings after the story is over.
So my post-ludy were really simply little devices to ask the reader to create his own story based on what they just finished.
I thought it would be a lot of fun for the reader.
I don't intend to write those stories myself.
Yeah, well it's fine. I got me to thinking. That's why I mentioned it.
One thing that's always kept me fascinated in your work is the way you extrapolate some of your stories to me at least are pretty strictly extrapolated from present technology and ideas.
You're right, really.
I would show another area simply because I am, as you say, statistically extrapolate.
Yeah, and one story in particular, I'm not sure if this was extrapolated or not. That's why I was going to ask about it.
The story that was included with Anasazi in the latest edition of it, the portions of this program.
Right.
This idea of precognition or something. Is that possible? Are there studies in this area that you are working with?
I actually developed that idea based on some term papers that a couple of young women had sent in to me.
Even though the university where I taught back in the Midwest was pretty repressive on me, the working with the students was really marvelous.
I encouraged them to go beyond where we had been going in a psychological and risk-eq class, for example.
And they did.
And two of those papers scourged the idea of certain chemical therapies that would help solve certain problems like infant schizophrenia.
And since the young women's papers did go beyond what I knew, I started checking back and reading all of their footnotes, citations, and found what sounded to me like a possibility for curing certain kinds of autistic behavior.
Well, I had to just drive in me to see if I couldn't get this scenario of mine with hypothesis studied by people who worked all the time with speech pathology.
Well, I talked to a speech pathologist who said, yes, this is a very possible hypothesis, and they'd very well be true.
But of course, I haven't got time to do it, and of course, you're not a pathologist, so you could never get published in any little quarterly journals anyway.
So, he honestly, we're not going to ever have anything done about this.
And I said the hell it won't, there.
Wrote a style fiction story giving chapter and verse in the story about the real research that had been done back in the 60s, so that if anyone who deals with pathological communication happens to notice that those very real citations are not true,
they're not true.
It's a nice, fair, new research, and apparently it did.
Yeah, I figured those were actual references.
Yes, you're right.
Listen, there was one thing you did in that story, which to me was very un-ing-like.
I hadn't noticed this in any of your other work.
Un-ing-like, well, that's a meaning.
You almost have it.
Well, it seems to be a possibility of time travel with that guy Fox who comes in there.
Ah, you mean that that in does not do much in time travel.
Yeah, you're right.
I usually don't because it has never seemed to me that it is a very sensible, it's still paradoxical, that I think it might very well be impossible.
You know, a few things may very well be permanently impossible and time travel, well, I don't happen to be a believer in time travel, that's all.
I have no, I don't think I could say I'm certain it can't happen, of course not.
But it's just not one of those things that I consider all that likely.
However, I'm certainly not above giving a hint of it once in a while.
But you're right though, as a general rule it is a kind of un-ing-like piece of a plot.
However, maybe next year or year after that I may decide to play with it.
Yeah, there have been some, I thought some excellent novels written recently on time travel, Hogan's Twice Upon a Time and what's the Timescape I guess by Benford?
Benford's Timescape, I was just really fascinated by that.
The alternate worlds make a lot of sense, well, I should say, seen to me to make a kind of theoretical sense.
And I can do it with alternate worlds a little better.
It's hard for me to write a thing which I don't believe.
That's one of the reasons why I don't do fantasy very much.
Okay, what about the story, the devil you don't know? Where did your interest in middle institutions come from?
Again, that was a story, not a story, it was a paper by a student of mine that discussed the dreadful conditions in some middle institutions.
This is back in the early to mid-70s when this young woman handed me this paper.
And I was really appalled and by doing some checking I found that she was right in every respect and I thought it was time that someone did some fiction along that line
to point out the possibilities for, to point out how likely it was that some middle institutions were being really mishandled
that the patients were being mal-treated, that nothing very fruitful was going to ever come out of them.
And so I wrote the story.
In that story of course you write about, I'm not sure the pronunciation, is it mafe, Chris mafe?
Yeah, mafe.
Okay, your characters are so real to me that I can't help but think that they're being modeled on real people.
I wonder if that's true.
No, actually mafe is much a creature of whole cloth of anybody.
There are of course partial patches of people that I crammed together to make characters.
I have noticed, oh in academia, that while of course I value academic life quite a bit.
I certainly not have tried to take it on about the age 40 if I didn't value it a lot.
But the single-minded really loath some kind of selfishness that some scholars have, they just, you know, just pause me.
They're not really doing this work because of anybody else.
They're doing it because they want to rise in this academic priesthood.
And mafe is that kind of man.
He is both the best and the worst of academia put together in the same name.
He's gutsy, he's extremely intelligent, he's active, but he's also outrageously selfish and he will sacrifice anybody to any degree for his own private favoring of himself.
What about Laura? Is there particular powers? I'm not sure what you'd want to call them, telepathy or empathy or whatever.
Is that something you might believe in or is that just a wild idea?
Well, I think that there is some hope of that sort of thing being legal.
But I'm not a believer, capital D believer, but I don't disbelieve either.
I think that that sort of thing might very well be possible.
Okay, let me move on here so I'm sure we'll have time to cover this.
To move on to your novel, Soft Targets.
Would you call that science fiction?
What I call it with science fiction?
Soft Targets.
Yes, I do because it's sociological science fiction.
There's engineering science, like hard sciences with hardware.
And there are the, let's say, quasi-sciences, like psychology, sociology and so on.
Just as sure as 1984 was science fiction, so was Soft Targets.
It involves some scientific hypotheses about media theory.
That was truly the initial impetus for the story.
Soft Targets was this theme of what we could do about this uningene marriage between terrorism and television.
That was a problem I saw in 1971, and I saw no solutions for it.
It didn't work in a tree society until about 1976 I guess.
In 75 or 76, I still hauling the idea over, mulling over the problem.
I came across these little set of hypotheses about how you could use the model of the warfare, the media going to war against the terrorists.
And see what media do when they go to war.
What have they done in the past?
How easy would it be to do it again?
Would it be effective?
And my conclusions were yes, it would be.
So then I wrote the novel.
I didn't want to write the novel until I had a possible solution.
I didn't want to help terrorists do their thing, but for the time I wrote it, terrorists were already started to do their thing.
Yeah, I guess the reason I asked, if that was science fiction, it seems to me that you say it's theory.
Media theory and so forth, I would have thought that by now that's probably pretty accepted.
Isn't that about your ideas about the media and terrorism?
Not by the media people, it's not.
They have the most selfish reason not to ask that to be considered true.
And of course if they can deny it, then they can continue being irresponsible, which is of course what they want to do all along.
A number of people in the top of our network media, I know that they have come across soft targets and they are none too pleased with it.
It suggests a level of taking responsibility for one's importance.
You know, if the media is all that important, then isn't it time they took a, they recognized their responsibilities to the public in more profound ways?
Well, I say that it is time. They say that it's not. They're intended to make money.
How does that look selling, you know?
Say, how is it selling?
Yeah.
It sold pretty well. It didn't go hog wild. It sold, I would say, it sold well for the first novel.
There were two editions and I believe Ace Books is going to be bringing out a third edition sometime next year.
Yeah, it seemed to me that that was such a book on such a vital contemporary issue. I thought it might, have you got any movie rights?
Are you interested?
As it happened, my 27 year old daughter who works with Warners down south and is an actress, she does have a treatment of it.
I read a couple of copies of the book and an actor named Joel Hughes is also very high on the idea.
They're trying to offer that treatment and book to anyone who would pay attention to it.
I think personally, the chances of it being made into a movie are perhaps one in a hundred.
The one thing is, it really lays too much blame. It's very trinket.
I say too much. I mean, for people in the media to be comfortable about it.
It raises hell with the media leaders.
But one thing, it's not liable to be the kind of movie that would ever be shown on late night television because it takes television so much to task.
Why would the TV people want to beat themselves about the head and shoulders by showing a movie that snarls about their irresponsibility?
Chances are they wouldn't.
And when people make movies these days, they are very clearly thinking about the TV rights later on.
That book reminded me of another one. It's a very different kind of book, but the idea, the power of the media is as a spin-rad bug-jack baron.
Bug-jack baron, yes. That was an interesting one.
Okay, let me go on for just a few minutes or just a stomach shock. Was that book hard to write?
Oh, Lord. You've asked a lot of questions that I have to answer yet too, so you must have redone your homework.
Yeah, it took me years to get all the background to this, especially with Asian and the Indian subcontinues on Asia.
All of the variables, the socio-political variables of that book were enough to drive me crazy.
I talk with historians, and in the case of India, more than any other case, I think, whatever I suggested as a scenario for the future,
every historian that I would talk to would say, oh no, ever socialize. No, this can't happen because x, y, or z.
Well, if that's not the case, that won't happen, then how about this? No, no, that can't happen. In short, none of them would ever be willing to speculate on what's going to happen to India.
And I pretty much had to work that out of whole cloth. So I had four drawer file cabinets and, oh, perhaps, 500 textbooks at the time I was done putting it all together.
Yeah, the work you put into that to me was obvious. I take it then that your scenario, your extrapolation, is pretty seriously done and in terms of what you think could happen.
Well, yes, so seriously enough that some of my friends are friends of mine because, as political scientists or physicists or whatever,
they read the book and said, oof, a lot of scholarly research has gone into this one again, and we would meet somewhere and get to be good friends.
That doesn't say much about the popularity of the book, although systemic shock has been a bestseller in science fiction terms anyway.
But it does say a lot about whether or not the work I did is appreciated by experts, and it does seem to be appreciated by experts.
That's the thing that gets to them the most is that the existing problems of Islam, of India, of Japan and China are going to work out.
The problems the United States will have, the problems that the Soviets will have 20 years from now, et cetera,
that it simply drifts all those bulls by the horns and wrestles them all at the same time.
How likely all this stuff is, who knows.
But at least I did wrestle with all those problems and find a kind of jigsaw puzzle that they would fit into.
Yeah, you did it. What was a jigsaw puzzle? You aren't by any chance a military strategist or a boss in that area, are you?
Well, in a small way, yes.
And Reginald Breitner, who is one of the better known science fiction writers and writers about science fiction, as well as writers off science fiction.
And Reg has done a book on military strategy, but aren't just a whole lot of military strategists around.
He's not writing books. Reg is one of them. I listen to him a lot, and of course I follow stuff in his libraries from time to time.
So, yeah, strategy is something interesting.
Okay, listen, Daphren, we have to switch the tape here. Can you give me about 10 or 15 minutes more after we switch it?
You have to, like?
Yeah. We just got to change the tape. We finished it.